Title: A Fresh Start

----

Subtitle:

----

Date: 05.02.2016

----

Tags: personal

----

Excerpt:

----

Text:

There is something liberating about fresh starts. Seeing that endless horizon of possibility, a road not yet travelled. And so it is I find myself in a similar position on the cusp of turning 30 and putting together my first personal website in over 6 years.

In the past I'd found it difficult to solve the problem of building a representation of myself and my work. You would be forgiven in thinking that since problem solving is the nature of a designer's work I'd be able to solve the problem of presenting myself. But demonstrating yourself as a thoughtful, driven, creative individual with a body of work to show for it is not so straight forward.

This time however I knew what needed to be done. I decided to treat myself as I would treat any client. I set myself a deadline and wrote up a brief on what I was trying to achieve.

<h6>Planning</h6>
That was it. To me that told me everything I needed to know about what my ultimate aim was.

I began by outlining the work I'd done over the last year, which sites I'd worked on, what projects I'd been a part of. I culled them ruthlessly, picking the ones that demonstrated how I approached my work, what decisions I made, and why I made them. Any designer can make a pretty web page but if you can explain, with clarity and conciseness, the why behind your decisions then you're a designer who'll go places.

Next I outlined what content I wanted to include; a journal for my thoughts on design, an about section that gave some background on myself, and finally a resume that could be downloaded. Not terribly difficult to envision for a portfolio but it was important to have a clear cut list of outcomes to aim for.

<h6>The Build</h6>
For the build itself I'm using a flat-file CMS, <a href="//getkirby.com">Kirby</a>. I'd spent a lot of time in 2014 researching different CMSes, trying to find one that was easy to implement. I didn't want something as feature rich as Wordpress, having gone that route before I found it was too cumbersome a process changing it for my needs.

I used Sketch to design the UI and this is where I usually get bogged down, so to avoid that pitfall I didn't spend an awful lot of time on it (as you can probably see). I focused on mainly typography, choosing what would work with my content and designed out from there.

To build it locally I used a number of apps; Codekit for Sass compiling and minifying, PHPStorm for coding, and Mamp to act as a local server. I then maintain a copy on Github and use Tower to manage it. I'm sure there are better environments you can use for development but it works for me.

It was difficult looking over my past work and trying to trickle out the memory of decisions I'd made and understand why. In retrospect this is probably a good exercise to do after each project, do a short write up of what do you, the challenges you faced, the mistakes you made and what you can learn from it.

<h6>Unfinished business</h6>
My 5 days are up and I'm releasing this in the state that it is in - unfinished. It doesn't contain all the content I want and the design isn't where I want it to be but it is a start. And to be honest that is what I really wanted, a starting point for this next chapter in my career.

<em>Disclaimer: I'm not saying there isn't a point to making something that looks nice for the sake of it. But there is a time and place for that kind of work and it isn't in what you should be using to sell yourself.</em>

